# Welcome to Anthroliz

This readme document is for the github repository. This will help as a reminder on how this task was built. 

Previously, we tried using [jekyllnow]() a jekyll template to build the website.

Now, we are going hardcore and building it from jekyll directly.  
We are taking this as an opportunity to learn a little bit about `ruby` as well.

Ruby is a web framework and jekyll is a framework that works directly with github pages. So that is nice.

### setup process

- set up github pages 
- clone the repository on local and create a branch
- check if ruby is installed. (mac catalina came with ruby >= 2.6) `ruby --version`
- install bundler on local path`gem install --user-install bundler` 
    - bundler helps create virtual environment where all package dependencies can be installed
- initialize bundler. This will create gemfile `bundle init`
- configure bundler to install gems in a project subdirectory ` bundle install --path vendor/bundle`
- add jekyll ` bundle add jekyll`
- bundle says add a jekyll scaffold, so lets do that `bundle exec jekyll new --force --skip-bundle .`
    - it created a few files such as `404.html`, `index.md`, etc
- now run `bundle install` as it was skipped earlier
- site is ready to serve. so lets get going ` bundle exec jekyll serve`

## cleanup

add lines to .gitignore. If gitignore doesn't exist, create a file with name .gitignore and paste the following

```
# Ignore metadata generated by Jekyll
_site/
.sass-cache/
.jekyll-cache/
.jekyll-metadata

# Ignore folders generated by Bundler
.bundle/
vendor/
```

## _config.yml

This YAML file provides default data to the rest of the github-pages. This file needn't be updated frequently.  
Somewhere on the internet says to create _data folder and add key/value there if changes are required. 

From our experience so far, we need the following yml key values. These can be overridden in other locations.
- `title:` Title of the website. Usually name 
- `description:` Description of the website
- `url:` Link of the site. https://example.com
- `baseurl:` Usually website's base url without the hostname. eg `/blog`
- `avatar:` Picture that appears on nav bars and pages.


## _posts

These is where blog posts will be written. Blog Posts should be written in the format of YYYY-MM-DD:Title.md


## _drafts

If the author wants to write drafts of posts and wants to look at them before moving to the __posts, this is where they stay


If we are using specific jekyll- themes the following two will be taken care by the theme. However if we want custom layouts and includes, here is where we do it.


## _layouts

Layouts or front matter of each page. Create layouts for each kind of pages: some examples:

- home
- post


## _includes

Put all additional html and javascript files that are needed for multiple pages. Some example/ideas:  

- head/meta
- footer
- analytics
- disqus commenting
- nav bar