---
layout: post
title: Starting a personal website
date: 2020-02-12
categories: [writing]
tags: [technology, jekyll, ruby, blog]
author: Anonymous
---

Creating a personal blog was always a goal of mine. I have seen some very beautiful websites out there and have always wondered how they are created. I have also thought how come somebody has so much time to do such tedious task. 

While I always wanted to create a website, I didn't want to use services like squarespace, or wix, but wanted to write something from scratch. There are many resources out there to achieve this goal so I had to sit down and find time to do it. 

I finally decided I was going to put aside some time and create a website, and I wanted to create it the hard way. Also, I didn't want to pay anybody for creating or hosting my site. 

Enter Github Pages.

Github pages are static websites that are hosted by [Github](https://github.com) and are completely free. It took me a few iterations and knowing what I was doing until i was comfortable with my work. 

In the beginning I straight up used a "templete" somebody had created and made it available on github called [Jekyll-Now](https://github.com/barryclark/jekyll-now). It worked for me for the most part. I just needed to fork the repository, change the configuration file and could write the blog. except that I did not want my site to look like everybody else who used that project. But it did lead me down the path of digging around what Jekyll was. 

More on part 2.